CVEs - Why Care About Software Vulnerabilities? article (#837)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/software-security/cves/cve-why-care.md

---
title: "Why Care About Software Vulnerabilities?"
description: "An overview of software vulnerability impacts and the significance of CVEs in vulnerability management practices"
lead: "An overview of software vulnerability impacts and the significance of CVEs in vulnerability management practices"
type: "article"
date: 2023-07-13T19:46:58+00:00
lastmod: 2023-07-13T19:46:58+00:00
contributors: ["Michelle McAveety"]
draft: false
tags: ["Overview"]
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "cves"
weight: 002
toc: true
---

> Software products are prone to [*vulnerabilities*](/software-security/cves/cve-intro/) which, if exploited by an attacker, may negatively impact the systems and consumers relying on them. Attacks against vulnerable software systems can result in the unintended exposure and misuse of sensitive data (like the theft of user account credentials). In other cases, these attacks could affect the provision of a service or compromise critical infrastructure that relies on the software. Given the considerable threat that they can pose, it is important that developers spend time mitigating vulnerabilities to protect against hackers seeking to exploit them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Software products are prone to [*vulnerabilities*](/software-security/cves/cve-intro/) which, if exploited by an attacker, may negatively impact the systems and consumers relying on them. Attacks against vulnerable software systems can result in the unintended exposure and misuse of sensitive data (like the theft of user account credentials). In other cases, these attacks could affect the provision of a service, or compromise critical infrastructure that relies on the software. Given the considerable threat that they can pose, it is important that developers spend time mitigating vulnerabilities to protect against hackers seeking to exploit them.
```

> Addressing the vulnerabilities present in your software helps secure the systems you support, use, and maintain. In this article, you will explore why you should care about vulnerabilities as a software developer, and learn about federal regulations that draw importance to CVE management (such as FedRAMP).

Reviewer: Just wondering if you think it is important to call out FedRAMP here, I feel like it may be ok to skip, but you would know best if it would resonate enough to mention higher up in the page.

Reviewer 2: It was a late addition, I was 50/50 on mentioning it. I'll take it out

## As a Developer

> Discovering and mitigating software vulnerabilities is a difficult – but necessary – task for developers to tackle. Development teams are ultimately the authorities which are able to remediate vulnerabilities at the source. Depending on the severity of a vulnerability, its exploitation could significantly impact the integrity of the software product, as well as the trust, safety, and operations of the consumers who rely on it.

Reviewer: A few "it"s in here, so I suggest being more concrete. You may want to break up that second sentence as an alternative approach.

```suggestion
Discovering and mitigating software vulnerabilities is a difficult – but necessary – task for developers to tackle. Development teams are ultimately the authorities who are able to remediate vulnerabilities at the source. Depending on the severity of a vulnerability, its exploitation could significantly impact the integrity of the software product, as well as the trust, safety, and operations of the consumers who rely on that software.
```

Vulnerability *triage* is an important step developers must take to work toward reducing risks posed by vulnerabilities in their software. Using [*vulnerability scanners*](https://owasp.org/www-community/Vulnerability_Scanning_Tools) can give developers information about the number, type, and severity of CVEs present in their work. With this data, developers can prioritize critical CVEs first, therefore ensuring that major security concerns are addressed first.

## Federal Regulations

> With notable software supply chain security attacks occurring in recent years (such as the [SolarWinds attack in 2020](/software-security/glossary/#solarwinds-hack)), the U.S. federal government has increased efforts to improve U.S. cybersecurity. These initiatives aim to strengthen software supply chain security by promoting safe development habits, such as frequent vulnerability scanning.

Reviewer: "Safe" and "secure" can only ever be "safer" and "more secure" as there is nothing 100% unfortunately 😄 

```suggestion
With notable software supply chain security attacks occurring in recent years (such as the [SolarWinds attack in 2020](/software-security/glossary/#solarwinds-hack)), the U.S. federal government has increased efforts to improve U.S. cybersecurity. These initiatives aim to strengthen software supply chain security by promoting safer development habits, such as frequent vulnerability scanning.
```

Reviewer 2: Makes sense, thank you for pointing that out!

### FedRAMP

The [Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program](https://www.fedramp.gov/program-basics/) (FedRAMP) is a security framework that must be adopted by cloud service providers (CSPs) before they service U.S. federal government agencies. The framework aims to promote the use of cloud services across agencies by standardizing security authorization practices. Based on the service being offered, FedRAMP sorts cloud services into low, moderate, and high impact levels, with increased security expectations for each level.

In order to achieve FedRAMP authorization, certain requirements need to be met as follows: 

> - Container images used by CSPs must be *hardened* according to benchmarks laid out in the [NIST SP 800-70](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-70r4.pdf). Chainguard Images offers [hardened, minimal base images](https://www.chainguard.dev/chainguard-images) designed to help meet FedRAMP compliance requirements.

Reviewer: You can use the royal "we" to talk about Chainguard here if that seems more natural. Like "We developed one solution, Chainguard Images..."

```suggestion
- Container images used by CSPs must be *hardened* according to benchmarks laid out in the [NIST SP 800-70](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-70r4.pdf). One solution here is Chainguard Images, which offers [hardened, minimal base images](https://www.chainguard.dev/chainguard-images) designed to help meet FedRAMP compliance requirements.
```

- Vulnerability scanners are expected to report information about discovered vulnerabilities, such as its CVE ID and CVSSv3 score. Additional configuration requirements can be found in the [FedRAMP Vulnerability Scanning Requirements outline](https://www.fedramp.gov/assets/resources/documents/CSP_Vulnerability_Scanning_Requirements.pdf).

> Meeting FedRAMP container image and vulnerability scanning requirements allows your organization to expand and reinforce its offerings as a CSP. To learn how Chainguard Images can help you meet FedRAMP container image requirements, check out [this blog post](https://www.chainguard.dev/unchained/fortify-comply-and-conquer-fedramp-with-chainguard-images).

Reviewer: I would use the title of the blog post as that helps for SEO. You can also use the royal "we" here if you would like. I think the benefit of that is that there is not a gotcha about us being a totally objective source.

### DHS Software Self Attestation

The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) released their [Secure Software Attestation Form](https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2023-04/secure-software-self-attestation_common-form_508.pdf) in response to [Executive Order 14028](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/12/executive-order-on-improving-the-nations-cybersecurity/). The attestation form identifies the secure software development practices that developers must verify to have met in order for their software to be utilized by federal agencies. Meeting the criteria laid out by the form is another critical step toward securing your software development processes.

## Learn More

> In this article, you explored reasons why you should care about software vulnerabilities from a development perspective. In addition, you were introduced to federal regulations that draw importance to vulnerability management and secure development practices. This knowledge will help you begin managing vulnerabilities present in the software you develop, improving your security profile and giving you a head start toward meeting regulations like FedRAMP.

Reviewer: I would use "we" as subject here vs. the "you" in the first sentence

```suggestion
In this article, we discussed reasons why you should care about software vulnerabilities from a development perspective. In addition, you were introduced to federal regulations that draw importance to vulnerability management and secure development practices. This knowledge will help you begin managing vulnerabilities present in the software you develop, improving your security profile and giving you a head start toward meeting regulations like FedRAMP.
```
